Supervised learning models often perform poorly at low-shot tasks, i.e. tasks for which little labeled data is available for training. One prominent approach for improving low-shot learning is to use unsupervised pre-trained neural models. Another approach is to obtain richer supervision by collecting annotator rationales (explanations supporting label annotations). In this work, we combine these two approaches to improve low-shot text classification with two novel methods: a simple bag-of-words embedding approach; and a more complex context-aware method, based on the BERT model. In experiments with two English text classification datasets, we demonstrate substantial performance gains from combining pre-training with rationales. Furthermore, our investigation of a range of train-set sizes reveals that the simple bag-of-words approach is the clear top performer when there are only a few dozen training instances or less, while more complex models, such as BERT or CNN, require more training data to shine
Current dialogue summarization systems usually encode the text with a number of general semantic features (e.g., keywords and topics) to gain more powerful dialogue modeling capabilities. However, these features are obtained via open-domain toolkits that are dialog-agnostic or heavily relied on human annotations. In this paper, we show how DialoGPT, a pre-trained model for conversational response generation, can be developed as an unsupervised dialogue annotator, which takes advantage of dialogue background knowledge encoded in DialoGPT. We apply DialoGPT to label three types of features on two dialogue summarization datasets, SAMSum and AMI, and employ pre-trained and non pre-trained models as our summarizers. Experimental results show that our proposed method can obtain remarkable improvements on both datasets and achieves new state-of-the-art performance on the SAMSum dataset
It is hard to create consistent ground truth data for interest points in natural images, since interest points are hard to define clearly and consistently for a human annotator. This makes interest point detectors non-trivial to build. In this work, we introduce an unsupervised deep learning-based interest point detector and descriptor. Using a self-supervised approach, we utilize a siamese network and a novel loss function that enables interest point scores and positions to be learned automatically. The resulting interest point detector and descriptor is UnsuperPoint. We use regression of point positions to 1) make UnsuperPoint end-to-end trainable and 2) to incorporate non-maximum suppression in the model. Unlike most trainable detectors, it requires no generation of pseudo ground truth points, no structure-from-motion-generated representations and the model is learned from only one round of training. Furthermore, we introduce a novel loss function to regularize network predictions to be uniformly distributed. UnsuperPoint runs in real-time with 323 frames per second (fps) at a resolution of $224\times320$ and 90 fps at $480\times640$. It is comparable or better than state-of-the-art performance when measured for speed, repeatability, localization, matching score and homography estimation on the HPatch dataset.
Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD) is one of the toughest problems in NLP, and in WSD, verb disambiguation has proved to be extremely difficult, because of high degree of polysemy, too fine grained senses, absence of deep verb hierarchy and low inter annotator agreement in verb sense annotation. Unsupervised WSD has received widespread attention, but has performed poorly, specially on verbs. Recently an unsupervised bilingual EM based algorithm has been proposed, which makes use only of the raw counts of the translations in comparable corpora (Marathi and Hindi). But the performance of this approach is poor on verbs with accuracy level at 25-38%. We suggest a modification to this mentioned formulation, using context and semantic relatedness of neighboring words. An improvement of 17% 35% in the accuracy of verb WSD is obtained compared to the existing EM based approach. On a general note, the work can be looked upon as contributing to the framework of unsupervised WSD through context aware expectation maximization.
Unsupervised learning of relative visual attributes is important because it is often infeasible for a human annotator to predefine and manually label all the relative attributes in large datasets. We propose a method for learning relative visual attributes given a set of images for each training class. The method is unsupervised in the sense that it does not require a set of predefined attributes. We formulate the learning as a mixed-integer programming problem and propose an efficient algorithm to solve it approximately. Experiments show that the learned attributes can provide good generalization and tend to be more discriminative than hand-labeled relative attributes. While in the unsupervised setting the learned attributes do not have explicit names, many are highly correlated with human annotated attributes and this demonstrates that our method is able to discover relative attributes automatically.
Unsupervised Domain Adaptation (UDA) for semantic segmentation has been actively studied to mitigate the domain gap between label-rich source data and unlabeled target data. Despite these efforts, UDA still has a long way to go to reach the fully supervised performance. To this end, we propose a Labeling Only if Required strategy, LabOR, where we introduce a human-in-the-loop approach to adaptively give scarce labels to points that a UDA model is uncertain about. In order to find the uncertain points, we generate an inconsistency mask using the proposed adaptive pixel selector and we label these segment-based regions to achieve near supervised performance with only a small fraction (about 2.2%) ground truth points, which we call "Segment based Pixel-Labeling (SPL)." To further reduce the efforts of the human annotator, we also propose "Point based Pixel-Labeling (PPL)," which finds the most representative points for labeling within the generated inconsistency mask. This reduces efforts from 2.2% segment label → 40 points label while minimizing performance degradation. Through extensive experimentation, we show the advantages of this new framework for domain adaptive semantic segmentation while minimizing human labor costs.
Non-expert annotation services like Amazon’s Mechanical Turk (AMT) are cheap and fast ways to evaluate systems and provide categorical annotations for training data. Unfortunately, some annotators choose bad labels in order to maximize their pay. Manual identification is tedious, so we experiment with an item-response model. It learns in an unsupervised fashion to a) identify which annotators are trustworthy and b) predict the correct underlying labels. We match performance of more complex state-of-the-art systems and perform well even under adversarial conditions. We show considerable improvements over standard baselines, both for predicted label accuracy and trustworthiness estimates. The latter can be further improved by introducing a prior on model parameters and using Variational Bayes inference. Additionally, we can achieve even higher accuracy by focusing on the instances our model is most confident in (trading in some recall), and by incorporating annotated control instances. Our system, MACE (Multi-Annotator Competence Estimation), is available for download 1 .
This work concerns automatic topic segmentation of email conversations. We present a corpus of email threads manually annotated with topics, and evaluate annotator reliability. To our knowledge, this is the first such email corpus. We show how the existing topic segmentation models (i.e., Lexical Chain Segmenter (LCSeg) and Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA)) which are solely based on lexical information, can be applied to emails. By pointing out where these methods fail and what any desired model should consider, we propose two novel extensions of the models that not only use lexical information but also exploit finer level conversation structure in a principled way. Empirical evaluation shows that LCSeg is a better model than LDA for segmenting an email thread into topical clusters and incorporating conversation structure into these models improves the performance significantly.
Learning semantic segmentation models requires a huge amount of pixel-wise labeling. However, labeled data may only be available abundantly in a domain different from the desired target domain, which only has minimal or no annotations. In this work, we propose a novel framework for domain adaptation in semantic segmentation with image-level weak labels in the target domain. The weak labels may be obtained based on a model prediction for unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA), or from a human annotator in a new weakly-supervised domain adaptation (WDA) paradigm for semantic segmentation. Using weak labels is both practical and useful, since (i) collecting image-level target annotations is comparably cheap in WDA and incurs no cost in UDA, and (ii) it opens the opportunity for category-wise domain alignment. Our framework uses weak labels to enable the interplay between feature alignment and pseudo-labeling, improving both in the process of domain adaptation. Specifically, we develop a weak-label classification module to enforce the network to attend to certain categories, and then use such training signals to guide the proposed category-wise alignment method. In experiments, we show considerable improvements with respect to the existing state-of-the-arts in UDA and present a new benchmark in the WDA setting. Project page is at this http URL.
SUMMARY We proposed a tool named MetaTISA with an aim to improve TIS prediction of current gene-finders for metagenomes. The method employs a two-step strategy to predict translation initiation sites (TISs) by first clustering metagenomic fragments into phylogenetic groups and then predicting TISs independently for each group in an unsupervised manner. As evaluated on experimentally verified TISs, MetaTISA greatly improves the accuracies of TIS prediction of current gene-finders. AVAILABILITY The C++ source code is freely available under the GNU GPL license via http://mech.ctb.pku.edu.cn/MetaTISA/.